---
title: "I can speak geek in two languages"
categories: work
tags:
  -Miscellaneous
  -Web Design
summary: <p>I just picked up <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0321303474/qid=1111363036/sr=8-1/ref=pd_csp_1/103-0709819-7313408?v=glance&#38;s=books&#38;n=507846" title="The Zen of CSS Design">the book</a> this weekend, and I found myself trying to explain to my husband why I pretty much wanted to curl up with it and read all weekend.<br />
&#8212;&#8212;-</p>
---
<p>I just picked up <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0321303474/qid=1111363036/sr=8-1/ref=pd_csp_1/103-0709819-7313408?v=glance&#38;s=books&#38;n=507846" title="The Zen of CSS Design">the book</a> this weekend, and I found myself trying to explain to my husband why I pretty much wanted to curl up with it and read all weekend.  Is has been pouring, as it does during winter in the temperate rainforest, and coffee and a good book seem like the ideal way to pass the time.  Plus, this book lets me hold on the <span class="caps">SXSW</span> vibe a bit longer (&#8220;I met <a href="http://hicksdesign.co.uk" title="Jon Hicks">him</a>, and got a couple of big smiles&#8221; and &#8220;I absolutely <em>heart</em> <a href="http://www.stuffandnonsense.co.uk" title="Andy Clarke">him</a>, what a sweet guy&#8221;).</p><p>Anyway, I started explaining to him what the <span class="caps">CSS</span> Zen Garden is and its significance to web design.  He was having trouble understanding the relationship between the <span class="caps">HTML</span> and <span class="caps">CSS</span> in the project, so I actually had this converstation:</p><p>&#8220;The <span class="caps">HTML</span> is like the <span class="caps">DNA</span>&#8212; it is static, the same for every design.  The <span class="caps">CSS</span> is like the regulator genes; changing <span class="caps">CSS</span> rules affects the phenotypic expression of the <span class="caps">HTML</span>.&#8221;</p><p>&#8220;Oh, <em>now</em> I get it!&#8221;  </p><p>An example for those of you reading who aren&#8217;t biology geeks:</p><p>The difference (genetically) between male and female humans is that females have two X chromosomes, and males have one X and one Y chromosome.  Two people can have the exact same <span class="caps">DNA</span> throughout their entire genome (unlikely, but possible) except for one having two X chromosomes and one have one of the same X chromosomes plus a Y chromosome.  These two people will look completely different, be different genders, and potentially have completely different medical histories, all because of what&#8217;s on the Y chromosome.  </p><p>The cool part is that all that&#8217;s on the Y chromosome is regulator genes&#8212; genes that turn on and off the expression of <span class="caps">DNA</span> that&#8217;s already present in the rest of the genome. In this case, the regulator genes affect the <span class="caps">DNA</span> that codes for physical traits, sexual organs, hormonal levels, etc. And you end up getting something that functions like a male instead of a female.</p><p>So basically, the Y chromosome overrides the default styles of the X chromosome, and you end up with a 3 column fixed layout with pixel fonts instead of a two column liquid layout with more organic typography.</p><p>Or something like that.</p>
