---
title: "Party like it&#8217;s 1999"
categories: work
tags:
  -Recommended
  -University Web Development
  -Web Standards
summary: 
---
<p>This week, I found myself in a situation that I still can&#8217;t quite believe.</p>

<p>I was given the project of putting together the user interface for taking online donations to the university.  The vendor was already chosen and the software paid for by the time I was called in, so I had to figure out a way to make our main web site interface with this vendor software.</p>

<p>(I&#8217;m going to be responsible here and not refer to the vendor by name.  However, if you find yourself evaluating fundraising software and would like to know the gory details, <a href="/about">drop me a line</a>.)</p>

<p>After spending some time looking at the software I realized that this was another situation where I was going to have to consider a user experience that doesn&#8217;t completely suck as a major victory.</p>

<p>To begin with, the mark-up lacked a doctype and character encoding, which I guess really doesn&#8217;t  matter because it&#8217;s invalid no matter how you slice it.  It is also loaded with <code>&#60;font&#62;</code> tags and inline <span class="caps">CSS</span>, random parts of which I could change to &#8220;customize&#8221; the site for our university.</p>

<p>But the worst part was that the software nowhere allowed for custom text to explain the process to the user, global navigation, or even a custom link to a help page.  We were expected to send the users, <em>who are trying to give us money</em>, off into a confusing abyss on the vendor&#8217;s server where they have no idea what to expect.  They are then presented with a series of forms with no clear explanation and no feedback as to where they are in the process of completing the donation.</p>

<p>We were also expected to send the users, who again <strong>are trying to give us money</strong>, into an graphically amateur site with no institutional branding, that violates our own graphic standards, not to mention every other web standards out there.</p>

<p>I figured I must be missing something, so I called the product rep, who informed me that there was no way for me to change any of the html, add links, customize text or add styles. </p>

<p>After weighing all the various <code>&#60;font&#62;</code> tag and inline <span class="caps">CSS</span> customization options, I determined that the best solution was to set up the donation pages as&#8230;. frames.  At least then I could include some branding, help, and navigation for the users.  I had to accept the fact that the site wasn&#8217;t going to be valid or accessible&#8212; as <a href="http://interllectual.com/article/269/suggestions-for-the-wasp-accessibility-and-education-task-forces#c000147">Derek said</a>, &#8220;Garbage in, garbage out&#8221;. The best I could do was build some less crappy stuff around the really crappy stuff.</p>

<p>It has been so long since I&#8217;ve used a frameset, that I couldn&#8217;t remember how to do it.  Then I figured&#8230;. hell, if I&#8217;m going to regress, I may as well do it in style.  So I fired up Dreamweaver and let it build the suckers for me.</p>

<p>I swear, sometimes I think all I do is triage. I get tired of making sites less bad.  Maybe someday I&#8217;ll be able to set my sights higher than &#8220;at least is doesn&#8217;t <em>completely</em> suck&#8230;&#8221;</p>

<p>The project launches on Friday, and you will be able to see my frames in all their glory.  This one is going right in the portfolio&#8212; filed under 1999.</p>
