---
title: "SXSW 2009 wrap-up"
categories: personal
tags:
  -SXSW
summary: 
---
	<p>I&#8217;ve been trying to figure out how to sum up <span class="caps">SXSW</span> 2009 since I got back, and I&#8217;m still not sure I can do it. It was a much different week for me this year than it has been in the past, due I&#8217;m sure to all the personal changes I&#8217;ve been through in the last year. I have been in a weird space since I moved to Wilmington&#8212; not sure where I am professionally and isolated from my friends. I kind of detached myself from the Web world during the move, and I haven&#8217;t been able to figure out where to enter back into it. And to be honest, I wasn&#8217;t sure if I really wanted to. So my goal for <span class="caps">SXSW</span> this year wasn&#8217;t to party and meet folks that inspire me and learn and get new ideas, it was to give a shit about the Web again by the time I left Austin. </p>

	<p>I think that goal was met for me, in spite of the size of the festival this year and the overwhelming prevalence of  &#8220;social media douchebaggery&#8221;, as <a href="http://adactio.com/journal/1561/">Jeremy</a> called it. I went to a lot fewer panels this year than in the past, and saw some real klunkers along with some that were really good. But I&#8217;m not going to go into the panels here. What really hit home for me was the time I got to spend with folks I didn&#8217;t realize I was missing as much as I was, and how many people I knew from previous years that I was happy to see and were happy to see me. And how it was easy to fall into conversation with these folks about the stuff I didn&#8217;t think I cared about anymore. I felt like I had a tribe. And if that&#8217;s where my tribe is, I guess that&#8217;s where I&#8217;m supposed to be.</p>

	<p>I didn&#8217;t meet as many new people as I would have liked, but I did meet some real gems. The flyers helped with that&#8212; if I didn&#8217;t have those squirrels my social capitol would have been severely reduced. But, meh. I guess it&#8217;s good to have a conversation starter. And they <em>are</em> cute. There were of course several people that I only saw in passing that I wish I could have spent more time with, but that is always the case and I suppose that&#8217;s what the Twitter is for. (At least that&#8217;s what <strong>I</strong> think it&#8217;s for. The social media douchebags could probably show me how to leverage something with it, but I&#8217;m not interested.)</p>

	<p>So. Looks like I&#8217;ve written another post that essentially says &#8220;<span class="caps">SXSW</span> is all about the people,&#8221; probably one of the biggest clichés in the online world by now. But it was for me this year in a very different way than it has been in the past. And I ended up having an awesome time. There are too many folks that contributed to that for me to name them all &#8212; you know who you are. But I do want to say a special thanks to <a href="http://elainenelson.org">Elaine</a> for being a great roommate and friend, and for putting up with my noctournal schedule, <a href="http://glendathegood.com">Glenda</a> for the picnic and for the always great talks we have, and <a href="http://thewatchmakerproject.com">Matthew</a> for hanging out with me all week and now being stuck with me as a friend whether he was planning on it or not ;).</p>

	<p>Now to figure out where to go from here&#8230;</p>
